Embedded mode plugin (#34)
frontity/api-reference: docs-api/frontity-plugins/embedded-mode.md

## Advantages of Embedded Mode

Embedded Mode offers several advantages over Decoupled Mode.

- The WordPress site exists under the primary domain, thus ensuring that:
  - all the SEO benefits already built in to WordPress work as normal
  - existing SEO (for a site transitioning to Frontity) will not be affected
  - sitemaps generated by WordPress/Yoast/All-in-one-SEO work as normal
  - WordPress page cache plugins and hosting CDNs continue to work as normal
- Content producers/editors continue to have the same experience
  - post/page preview remains available
  - the admin bar is active for logged in users

## Disdvantages of Embedded Mode

- Frontity still needs to be hosted on a separate node server/serverless function (albeit on any domain you like including default domains provided by the hosting provider)
- WordPress still needs to go through it's [bootstrap process](https://wordpress.tv/2017/06/22/alain-schlesser-demystifying-the-wordpress-bootstrap-process/) on initial page load

> - more routing is involved (WordPress makes a call to Frontity which returns the HTML to WordPress) so **a caching plugin is a necessity\*\*\*\*** rather than simply a nice to have. (We recommend [Simple Cache](https://github.com/luisherranz/simple-cache))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- more routing is involved (WordPress makes a call to Frontity which returns the HTML to WordPress) so **a caching plugin is a necessity\*\*\*\*** rather than simply a nice to have.
```

I'd remove that for now because it doesn't work yet.

Therefore, if required, it's possible to change the directory or URL where your static assets are stored **at build time**. To do this you can use the [`--public-path` option](https://api.frontity.org/frontity-cli/build-commands/build#the-public-path-option) of the `npx frontity build` command.

> This changes [WebPack's `publicPath` configuration option](https://webpack.js.org/guides/public-path/).

### Examples

#### Example 1: Frontity in the same WordPress server

If you are using the same server for both WordPress and Frontity, and your Frontity project is at `/wp-content/frontity`, say, then your static folder will be at `https://yourdomain.com/wp-content/frontity/build/static`.

You can change the folder when you run `npx frontity build` thus:

```bash
> npx frontity build --public-path /wp-content/frontity/build/static
```

This ensures that Frontity will source it's assets from this location instead of from the default `https://<YOUR-DOMAIN>/static`.

#### Example 2: Frontity in an external server

If you've deployed Frontity to an external hosting service, for example Vercel, then you can use the `--public-path` option to point directly to the Vercel URL:

```bash

> > npx frontity build --public-path https://myfrontityapp.now.sh/static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> npx frontity build --public-path https://myfrontityapp.vercel.app/static
```

I think `now.sh` URLs are deprecated 🙂

# Frontity Embedded Mode

> This plugin enables an **Embedded Mode** implementation of Frontity. It can be downloaded from [here](https://github.com/frontity/frontity-embedded).

Reviewer: @santosguillamot are we finally going to publish it in the WordPress repository?

If not, maybe we could add two links, one to the repository (code) and the other to the zip download, like this: 

```suggestion
This plugin enables an **Embedded Mode** implementation of Frontity. 

- [Explore the code](https://github.com/frontity/frontity-embedded)
- [Download the zip](https://github.com/frontity/frontity-embedded/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) 
```

Author: I like the idea of the direct link to the zip file. I didn't think of that possibility. 🤷🏻‍♂️

Author: Though if it's going to be submitted to the plugin repository that will be even better. However that will also depend on it being accepted by the moderators.

Reviewer 2: >@SantosGuillamot are we finally going to publish it in the WordPress repository?

Yes, my idea is to publish it in the repository once all [the issues](https://github.com/frontity/frontity-embedded) are merged. I've made a Pull Request for the last one by the way.

Reviewer: Approved 👍

Author: Done: https://github.com/frontity/api-reference/pull/34/commits/7cb15b98b19814873209110917d5fedfa98a1801

Embedded Mode can be contrasted with **Decoupled Mode**. In Decoupled Mode the primary domain points to the Frontity site, with the WordPress site being on a secondary domain or on a subdomain of the primary domain.

In Embedded Mode the primary domain points to the WordPress site, and the Frontity site can be on another domain including the default URL provided by a free hosting service such as [Vercel](https://docs.frontity.org/deployment/deploy-using-vercel).

> 

Reviewer 3: I would add in this page (at this location or some other one) some of the diagrams in [this post](https://community.frontity.org/t/embedded-mode/1432/30) to make this explanation more clear

Author: Thanks @juanmaguitar, I think the right place for the diagrams will be the Architecture page rather than the plugin page.

Reviewer 3: I'm still missing a diagram here of the Embedded Mode to have it more clear (even if it's then duplicated in the Architecture page)

This plugin replaces the active WordPress theme with the Frontity installation. Frontity therefore effectively becomes the WordPress sites' theme. It works by substituting it's own [`template.php`](https://github.com/frontity/frontity-embedded/blob/master/includes/template.php) in place of any call made to the [WordPress template hierarchy](https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/basics/template-hierarchy/).

## Advantages of Embedded Mode

Embedded Mode offers several advantages over Decoupled Mode.

- The WordPress site exists under the primary domain. This ensures that:

>   - the SEO of the site is not compromised

Reviewer: What do you mean by this?

Author: I guess that should say 'any existing SEO for the site will not be compromised' - what do you think?

Author: Actually what I think I meant was that all the SEO benefits already built in to WordPress are still available.

Reviewer: Ok, but as the title of this section is "Embedded mode offers several advantages over Decoupled mode" I think it implies that SEO _is actually compromised_ in Decoupled mode.

Author: You're right - I'll look at rephrasing that.

Author: Done: https://github.com/frontity/api-reference/pull/34/commits/7cb15b98b19814873209110917d5fedfa98a1801

  - sitemaps generated by WordPress/Yoast/All-in-one-SEO work as normal

>   - caching plugins continue to work as normal

Reviewer: We can include CDNs here as well.

```suggestion
  - WordPress page cache plugins and hosting CDNs continue to work as normal
```

Author: Done: https://github.com/frontity/api-reference/pull/34/commits/7cb15b98b19814873209110917d5fedfa98a1801

- Content producers/editors continue to have the same experience
  - post/page preview remains available
  - the admin bar is active for logged in users

## Disdvantages of Embedded Mode

- Frontity still needs to be hosted on a separate node server/serverless function (albeit on any domain you like including default domains provided by the hosting provider)
- WordPress still needs to go through it's [bootstrap process](https://wordpress.tv/2017/06/22/alain-schlesser-demystifying-the-wordpress-bootstrap-process/) on initial page load

> - more routing is involved (WordPress makes a call to Frontity which returns the HTML to WordPress) so a caching plugin is a necessity rather than simply a nice to have. (We recommend [Simple Cache](https://github.com/luisherranz/simple-cache))

Reviewer: Simple Cache is broken when used along with the REST API, so we either have to explain that they need to exclude `/wp-json` or publish my version of Simple Cache, which does have support for the REST API.

@santosguillamot let's make a decision about that.

Reviewer 2: Okay, I've answered you in the thread, but I think it makes sense to publish the plugin in the repository :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: I'll update the link once it's been accepted and published in the repository.

## Installation

Installation is a three step process: Download → Install → Activate.

1. **Download** the zip file from [here](https://github.com/frontity/frontity-embedded).

   ![](../.gitbook/assets/embedded-mode-img01.png)

> 2. **Install** the plugin in WordPress:

Reviewer 3: Regarding this WP plugin I think it is relevant information how to get the zip from the repository (Step 1) and that the plugin needs to be activated once its installed (Step 3) 
But I don't really think we should document how to to install a WP plugin from a .zip file. That's why I would remove the screenshots and explanations of this step 2 and just refer to the official information about how to add a plugin from a zip file available at wordpress.org
https://wordpress.org/support/article/managing-plugins/#manual-upload-via-wordpress-admin

Author: You're right, I'm going to use the link to the zip file that @luisherranz provided [here](https://github.com/frontity/api-reference/pull/34#discussion_r620086305) so I don't need the screenshot showing how to get the zip file from GitHub. I'll remove all the screenshots in that case.

Author: Done: https://github.com/frontity/api-reference/pull/34/commits/7cb15b98b19814873209110917d5fedfa98a1801
